they are carrying these things out
for their deity," he said.
  Recently, Griffis held up two 
pictures in his home.  One shows a
boy on an autopsy table.  The other
shows his four young grandsons.
  "I do it for the kids,"  he said
with a pained expression.
  The 57-year-old father of two 
grown daughters and a grown son
lives in Tiffin with his wife, Anne,
although his new career requires
him to travel extensively.
  Even before retiring in 1986
after 26 years on the Tiffin police
force, he researched occult crime.
  "I went looking in the major
cities, trying to understand why
kids get so caught up in all of
this," he said.  "It was scary, but
now I know."
  Sgt. Dave Spaulding, in charge
of training sheriff's deputies in
Montgomery County, Ohio, credits
Griffis with "bringing credibility to
the investigation of occult crime."
  "He started doing his homework
in the late 1970s, when the rest of
people in law enforcement were
pooh-poohing any connection at
all," Spaulding said.
  Phil Carlo, a researcher who
had just spent three weeks behind 
bars with "Night Stalker"  Richard
Ramirez -~ a Texas drifter con-
victed of murdering 13 people in 
the Los Angeles area in the 
mid-1980s -~ called Griffis "the
foremost authority on the phenom-
enon of occultism, a walking
encyclopedia."
  Professor Carl Reschke of the
University of Denver's theology
department said Griffis helped set
a key precedent in the Arkansas
trial.
  "Every effort was made to
discredit him," Reschke said.  "But
here at long last is proof positive
that satanic crime, occult-moti-
vated crime, has an ideological
bonding connection."
